Appendix D : Program Structure

The present section lists the names and outlines the functions of the various subroutines used by
LEVEL, and indicates their hierarchy. In particular, the level of indentation in this list indicates
which subroutines call which others; unless stated otherwise, each subroutine is called exclusively
by the immediately preceding routine having one lower level of indentation.
LEVEL : The main program which reads input data and instructions, and calls the potential
preparation, eigenfunction determination, and overlap integral routines.
MASSES : A data subroutine containing accurate atomic masses and other properties of all
stable atomic isotopes. For normal cases, its presence obviates the need for a user to look
up and type precise particle masses into the input data file. It is lso called by POTGEN
to define mass-scaling of BOB functions.
ALF : For any smooth single-minimum, shelf-state or double-minimum potential, ALF
(Automatic Level Finder) uses multiple calls to subroutine SCHRQ (see below) to deter-
mine the vibrational energies of all levels from v = 0 up to some maximum v specified
by its input parameter KVMAX. If fewer than the specified number of levels are found,
warnings are printed.
SCECOR : uses first-order semiclassical estimates of ( v + 1/2) and dG(v)/dv (see
Eqs. (10) and (11), and sometimes more brute force methods, to generate a trial
eigenvalue for the ‘next’ level of interest.
SCHRQ : Solves the Schr¨odinger equation to determine the eigenvalue and (unit normalized)
eigenfunction of the vibrational level lying closest to the input trial energy.
QBOUND : For quasibound levels (those lying above the potential asymptote, but
behind a potential barrier), applies the Airy function boundary condition at the
third turning point to initiate the inward inward integration of the wave function
for such levels [8, 9].
WIDTH : Calculates the tunneling predissociation lifetime or width of a quasibound
level [9–11].
LEVQAD : Called by WIDTH to evaluate the near-turning-point contributions to
the semiclassical quadratures over the potential well and the barrier to tunneling
which are required for calculating the predissociation rate.
CDJOEL : Calculates the diatomic molecule centrifugal distortion constants of Eq. (8). The
required input is the effective (centrifugally-distorted, if appropriate) radial potential,
and the eigenvalue and eigenfunction of the level in question (as calculated by SCHRQ).
LEVXPC : Calculates the desired diagonal expectation values of powers of the specified
distance coordinate or (interpolated) radial function RFN(r) (see Read #26 in Appendix
B).
MATXEL : Calculates the desired off-diagonal matrix elements of powers of the specified
radial function or distance coordinate, and the radiative lifetime or Einstein emission
coefficient A [s−1].
PREPOT : The subroutine that oversees reading of the parameters defining the potential
and generating the required potential array at the N distances specified by the input
distance array.

GENINT : Uses piecewise polynomial or cubic spline functions to interpolate over a set
of read-in turning points to yield the potential function array at the equally-spaced
radial mesh required by SCHRQ . If necessary, it extrapolates beyond the range of
the given points with analytic functions (see options for parameter ILR of Read
#7).
PLYINTRP : Performs piecewise polynomial interpolation on a given array of
point, and returns the function value and (if desired) its derivatives at a speci-
fied point. It is used by GENINT to interpolate for the potential for cases with
NUSE > 0 . This routine is also used by SPLINT to define the first derivatives at
the inner and outer ends of the interpolation region, R = XI(1) and XI(NTP),
respectively.
SPLINT : Calls subroutine SPLINE to generate the 4 × (NTP − 1) coefficients
required to define the cubic spline through the NTP given turning points, and
then uses these coefficients to generate the desired interpolated function values
at the specified integration mesh points.
SPLINE : Generates the coefficients defining the cubic spline function through
the given NTP turning points.
POTGEN : For the various analytic potential function specified by input parameter
IPOTL (see Read #10), reads in the parameters defining those functions and gen-
erates the desired array of potential function values on the specified radial grid. If
BOB correction functions are to be included, also reads in the parameters defining
them and incorporates them into the effective adiabatic potential used by SCHRQ.
DAMPF : Generates the damping functions of Eqs. (25) and (26) utilized in defin-
ing the tails of the MLR, DELR and HPP potential energy functions.
AFdiag : Performs the 2 × 2 or 3 × 3 diagonalization used to define the long-range
tail of a potential energy function the case or interstate coupling near the nS+nP
asymptote of a homonuclear alkali dimer [33, 49–51].
LKoef : Asen Pashov’s subroutine to generate the array of Nbeta × Nbeta coeffi-
cients that define his spline ‘basis functions’ [45].
Scalc : A function subroutine to generate the Sm(x) ’basis functions’ used by Pashov
to generate values of a spline function.
ludcmp : A subroutine used by LKoef.
